so this next individual Lanier's watched
impact theory yeah this is the Napoleon
Hill of our generation even better
okay he was the founder of company years
years ago he wanted to make nutrition
bars that were healthy sugar free
alcohol free and it was one of the
fastest accelerated startups 57,000
Billingsley is the second fastest
growing startup in the history of
startup world's a huge huge thing he's
helping to make an impact out there and
he's the host of impact Theory founder
of lush nutrition I won't get up
[Music]
[Applause]
thank you guys thank you okay we're
we're super limited on time so I want to
dive into this we have 60 minutes to
change your industry and hopefully
change your guys's life I have no
financial and scent if I don't have
anything to pitch so literally I'm gonna
be ruthlessly cold about the state of
your industry and what I think you need
to do if you want to make change so I've
been invited because I'm being called by
tristin anyway I'm being called a
disrupter and the way that we built
quest nutrition the way that we turned
it into the second fastest growing
company in America we grew by 57,000
percent in three years alone in
manufacturing so hundreds of thousands
of square feet millions of dollars of
equipment all starting from a capital
start of $10,000 so we ended up turning
it into a billion-dollar company and the
way that we did it has three guys with
no outside funding was by looking at the
problem in a completely different way
humans lead with belief that maybe the
single most important thing to
understand humans lead with belief
meaning you don't do something and then
believe you can do it you won't even
take the first step if you don't believe
that your actions will be rewarded with
results that's why so many people are
paralyzed because they think that
they're not worthy
they think they're or they know they're
uneducated they know that they're not
the person that they need to be in order
to accomplish and the reality is you're
probably not the fact is your skillset
has already taken you as far as it's
going to take you so if you are
unsatisfied with where you are today I
have some horrifying news for you I'll
chase it with some good news but first
let's start with the bad the bad news is
your life is an exact reflection of the
choices you've made
that's it it's not circumstance it comes
down to skillset and choices you've
chosen to build a certain skill set
you've chosen to do certain things take
certain risks play certain things safely
whatever the case may be those were all
choices now your life is a reflection of
that what I want you to understand
though the belief the only belief that
you need to have that thing that is
going to allow you to take that first
step
is not to believe that you're capable of
what you're trying to build because we
all know you're not I knew that I wasn't
when we started quest I knew I wasn't
the person that I needed to be I
understood that it just didn't paralyze
me because I believed one thing and if
you take nothing else from what I say
today burn the following statement into
your soul humans are the ultimate
adaptation machine that's it Charles
Darwin is often misquoted as saying that
it's the strongest of the species that
survive
he'd never said that what he actually
said was it's not the strongest of the
species that survives nor the most
intelligent but rather the most adaptive
to change we're the apex predator for a
reason because unlike any other animal
we have the ability to go in any
direction any direction we want we are
the only species that you can find
anywhere at one point James Cameron was
actually at the bottom of the Marianas
Trench we can thrive anywhere from
Inuits living in the tundra to peoples
that have survived in the desert because
humans adapt that is the fundamental
nature of what we are when they first
decoded the human genome what they
thought they were going to find was all
this complexity all these genes they
decoded the onion they saw that it had
40,000 genes and then they decoded the
human genome and they found that we had
20,000 genes and they said how is that
possible how was it possible that an
onion is more genetically complicated
than a human but what they didn't
realize was all that stuff that they
were discarding as junk DNA is
epigenetic signaling we have this
massive amount of code that all it does
is it tells those 20,000 genes how much
and when to turn on or off we are
designed to adapt
so wherever your business is now
whatever your skill set is now whatever
your vision of yourself is now you can
change it you can become anything you
want to be but life is gonna ask you one
simple question what price are you
willing to pay to get there and that's
it that's the hard truth if you're
willing to pay the price and you can
become whatever you want you can become
truly capable of the extraordinary but
you've got to go through the process of
building that skill set you've got to be
willing to stare naked Liat your
inadequacies to understand that you
aren't yet the person that you want to
be or need to be to execute against your
goals but that you can become that
person and then start walking down that
path and day by day brick by brick build
the skill set that you want now I'm
gonna be talking for 20 minutes and then
I'm gonna take Q&A and what I want to do
in that time remember I'm not in your
industry and yet each and every one of
you there are no restrictions you can
ask me anything you want about how to
grow your industry and at the end of
that if I've done my job you guys will
have a vision for your industry that is
radically different and as foundation
for our conversation I want to tell you
my own journey I started out as a
filmmaker I went to USC film school I
was one of four people only four people
get chosen to do a senior thesis film at
USC USC film school is statistically
harder to get into than Harvard law I
was one of only four chosen for a senior
thesis film I thought my life was set I
thought I had natural talent I could
just roll up and do whatever I wanted
and it would be golden and up until that
final film in my senior year I was
proven right I just kept getting
selected selected selected everything I
was doing was working and then my final
film was so bad and I fell on my face so
embarrassingly that people were actually
cutting my film into small reels to make
fun of it and it was so embarrassing to
me that I stole the master so that no
one could ever see it again
and I went into crisis and I graduated
film school I didn't have any money no
more support from my parents and the
three picture deal that I thought I
would walk away from film school with
evaporated when I ruined my final film
and I realized in that moment a very
hard truth I wasn't a talented filmmaker
that was just the truth the world wasn't
conspiring against me I wasn't good and
because I wouldn't wasn't good I didn't
make a good film because I didn't make a
good film I couldn't advance my career
the way that I wanted to and because of
that and having a fixed mindset meaning
I believed that my talent and
intelligence were fixed traits they were
given to me at Birth I didn't understand
that I was the ultimate adaptation
machine I could become anything I didn't
know that so I laid on the floor of my
unfurnished apartment not knowing what
the hell I was gonna do with my life
I felt so lost and hopeless and
terrified I wasn't able to pay all my
bills I didn't know how I was going to
survive ultimately I meet these two guys
very successful entrepreneurs and as a
kid growing up in a morbidly obese
family that was a little chubby myself
I'd promised myself two things my family
also bordered between blue collar and
white collar two things one one day I
would be rich and one day I would have
six-pack ABS I had no idea how I was
gonna get there but I was committed to
those two things so when these two guys
came into my life they were very
successful entrepreneurs and they were
body builders I literally couldn't
believe it I was like this is crazy this
is the two things I told myself I would
figure out and they said look Tom you're
coming to the world with your handout
you want to make art you have to control
the resources so come with us we're
about to start this technology company
get rich and then you can go back and
build the studio and I thought that's
brilliant it's exactly what I'm gonna do
I thought it would take about 18 months
so I joined them and they said look
you're starting as a copywriter because
that's the only thing that we can
justify paying you for but don't think
of yourself as a copy
understand you can become any role in
this company that you want you just have
to get the right skillset you've got to
become the right person for that job and
so I took them seriously and I busted my
ass and I got better and over a period
of about six and a half years I became
the chief marketing officer in the
company and they gave me ten percent
ownership in the company because I was
working that hard so at that point six
and a half years in I'm worth I'm a
multimillionaire on paper and I'm
completely miserable and I realized I'm
living the cliche of money can't buy
happiness this can't be real
like all the things that people warn you
against I'm actually living them like
this is it's such a joke I could not
believe it and so I went to my wife who
by the way her father did not want me to
marry his daughter and he said that very
plainly and I remember telling him sir
I know what you see right now is a broke
kid but I'm the most ambitious person
you've ever met and one day I will make
your wife rich now imagine those words
hanging in the air and I'm a
multi-millionaire on paper but in real
life not so much and I walk into my
partner's and I tell my wife I say look
I want to be happy again this is so
miserable marketing a product that I
don't believe in pushing something that
I don't think is adding value to
people's lives I can't do this anymore
and she said I totally get it I bet on
you so I go into my partners and I say
here's the equity back I literally
handed back two million dollars I said I
need to go do something that gives me
more energy than it takes I need to be
passionate about what I'm doing and they
were completely caught off guard and I
left I'm driving home I'm on the phone
with my wife I did it I quit that's the
hard part these guys are like my
brothers I've been working side by side
in the trenches with them for six and a
half years and as I'm telling you that
my phone rings and it's them and they
said come out to dinner with us
and for love of the Brotherhood for the
connection that we had for them helping
to transform my life for showing me how
to control my destiny for showing me
that I could adapt for showing me that I
could add any skill to my life that I
wanted that I can completely change my
body my mindset everything I went out to
dinner and they said the words that
ended up changing my life they said we
could do this without you but we don't
want to and all the sudden that let me
connect to something other than the
money wasn't about getting rich anymore
it was about a brotherhood it was about
camaraderie it was about building
something but I'd already been the hard
part I'd quit so I said I'm never coming
back to that environment so if we're
gonna keep working together here's what
it would have to look like it would have
to be a company based on value creation
it would have to be something where I'm
passionate about it because let me tell
you something that is true beyond
measure the struggle is guaranteed the
success is not the struggle is a
guarantee so you better love what you do
on a day-to-day basis read Eckhart Tolle
is the power of now the only moment
that's real is right now now follows you
so every time you're doing something if
you're standing and staring and waiting
for someone to finish going to the
restroom or whatever you're standing in
line at Disneyland that is your life
that is the sum total of what you are
about in that moment and life is simply
a string of those moments and so you've
got to start asking yourself am I using
those moments wisely and I knew I was
never going to go back and chase money I
needed to in the moment feel good about
what I was building feel good about how
I was contributing be lit up with
passion and let me tell you passion is
not something you were born with drives
me nuts everybody thinks they're gonna
turn inside like an archaeologist and
find that thing their deepest passion
the thing they always love hiding inside
as soon as you say it I hope it sounds
ridiculous that you would love something
that much and yet somehow
blind to it it doesn't work like that
it's like real love you've got to go on
a date first you see somebody you're
interested in you talk to them it sparks
something you spend time you engage and
through that process of engaging with it
maybe if you're lucky it turns into a
fascination but if you really want a
passion you've got to go through the
process of gaining mastery and mastery
is the part of the relationship and
business or in romance where everybody
falls apart because it's where the work
starts it's where you have to do things
long after it stopped being fun like let
me tell you my wife had still has quite
frankly dysbiosis you guys know what
dysbiosis is for those that don't it's
when your microbiome and your intestinal
tract gets messed up so you have a hard
time keeping food down it is miserable
it is pain and cramping and being
doubled over and having to go to the
emergency room getting emaciated losing
your hair your fingernails breaking but
I'm more proud of those moments of being
there for her and helping her through
that then the times of fiery romance
fiery romance is easy but the love that
connection that I would die for this
woman that comes in those moments and
the same is true in your business the
process of becoming extraordinary which
by the way it's what you're gonna have
to do if you want to change this
industry don't worry about other people
don't even worry about the industry
worry about yourself paint a vision of
yourself as somebody who is capable of
the extraordinary who is capable of more
than the next person who's willing to
push harder and go farther than the next
person do that and everything in your
life will change so I lay all of that
out for my partners it's got to be that
it's got to be something that I can
fight for like that I've got to be able
to be myself I'm tired of hiding as a
marketer I want this to be about
community and connection and this was in
about 2009 social media didn't have a
name
everybody thought it was just a
distraction and I said I actually think
that this is an opportunity to build a
community that social media is really
just a megaphone and you can give people
a reason to build you up or tear you
down but the choice is yours if you're
adding value if that's what this is all
about if you're demonstrating passion if
you're showing people how hard you will
go just to help then you can build a
group of people around you that want you
to win and when people want you to win
you've got something and that's the
thing about your industry I have gone to
a chiropractor regularly for 15 years
because when you lift weights you get
knocked out of place all the time now
the first time I went it sounded like
voodoo I didn't understand it and by the
way that's one of the biggest problems
in this industry you were fighting a
world at large that equates you to
voodoo and when I started researching
because I wanted to be able to come here
armed when you look on the first page of
YouTube for results at least half of
them are news programs asking whether or
not this is real medicine or witchcraft
voodoo a scam whatever so that's what
you're up against but what we realized
that quest was only results matter
people could say whatever they wanted
about us they could say whatever they
wanted about the company our product was
metabolically real and that was our
stance we're either gonna do this right
or we're not gonna do it at all we used
to repeat that over and over and over
why they're gonna do this right or we're
not gonna do it at all and when we first
tried to launch the company we had this
formula we thought this formula is
amazing it doesn't use sugar but it
tastes like it has sugar this is
incredible we're gonna crush so we went
to the contract manufacturers by the way
every protein bar you've ever eaten with
the exception of quest is basically made
by four or five different companies and
they make the bars for everybody and
they just switch out the labels and boom
boom boom they pump it out we went to
those same guys cuz we just thought of
ourselves as marketers we went to them
and said hey here's our formulation they
said this is great but it can't be made
and what we realized was the equipment
that was commercially available had
grown in lockstep with the use of high
fructose corn syrup so once you remove
high fructose corn syrup suddenly it
doesn't run through the machines so we
had to become our own equipment
manufacturer so we were designing
equipment so that we could manufacture
the bar that we wanted because we knew
the only thing we cared about was adding
value and value is measurable you're
either helping people or you're not and
that became our gold standard and that
was how we grew our marketing wasn't
about saying how cool we were it was all
about building a community celebrating
people encouraging them doing what we
called mirror marketing we wanted to
show them we didn't want to show us we
didn't even want to talk about us we
didn't start talking about us until they
started posting photos of them making
recipes with our bars and stuff like
that and we realized wow that's actually
what they really enjoy is showing all
the different ways they can interact
with our bars
we had people at the eiffel tower like
holding up our bars we had people making
recipes it was crazy
our job is to create the space for that
our job was to bring so much value that
somebody felt connected to the brand and
our job was to be real people I used to
tell the staff all the time we are not a
nameless faceless organization it's us
we're the people behind the company we
need to be willing to stand up and be
counted
know what we stand for know what we want
this company to mean to people and that
was gonna be the way forward at the end
of the day if you guys are really gonna
revolutionize this industry that's the
standard you're gonna have to hold
yourself to because you've been trying
for decades to play the PR game and
you're losing so I think you have to
take a fundamentally different approach
to your industry about how you reach
people about what you offer people
because chiropractics has been around
for a very long time
and we haven't solved the problems I see
you guys as being in the wellness
industry I don't see it as just being
about the spine that happens to be one
area of expertise but at the end of the
day sometimes my problems weren't solved
by the chiropractor so having somebody
that I could go to that actually
understood things from a holistic
standpoint like my chiropractor was a
former bodybuilder if any of you know
bodybuilding he won the mr. Olympia
competition guy named Franco Columbu Wow
we know Franco Franco's incredible but
his message to me every time I came in
was you don't need multiple sessions I'm
gonna put you back in place your problem
is the way you lift you lift like an
idiot let me show you how to lift so you
don't need to see me anymore
and he would spend the time trying to
show me how to live properly because he
knew if I add enough value maybe I lose
this guy as a client but for sure he's
gonna tell the next person that needs my
services and so we had half of our
company go into Franco because we
believed in it so much because it added
value because it worked so I can go on
national television and say yes
chiropractics works for some stuff and
it's worked incredibly well but having
that testimonial where somebody's not
incentivized to say something nice and
they say it anyway that's how you get
big in the age of social media all right
with that I want to open it up for
questions hit me up as far as having a
new idea that people within the
profession within your own field that
should be on your team may not like
there's a conversation in chiropractor
going on right now we have negative
brand equity it's no secret
most people that don't know what we do
think that it's not good there's a
conversation going around of should
chiropractic shift to calling ourselves
doctors of vitalism should we identify
with a different name first so that you
don't instantly say oh I'm a
chiropractor and
they just automatically go towards OCU
crack backs or I heard so-and-so got a
stroke or whatever from the outside
looking in and from someone that's super
successful and speaks to so many
successful people what do you think
about that idea and when would be the
time to make a shift like that if that
time were to come what are some of the
signs is that even a an idea of a good
strategy should we rebuild the ship of
chiropractic or or should we continue to
do what we're doing but throw a
different label on it so that we're not
starting already in the losers bracket
so I personally wouldn't worry about
doing a rebrand because you have
fundamental problems that you're not
addressing and if you rebrand and don't
address those problems you'll just taint
the new name so here's here's the truth
you guys offer a service the service is
awesome some problems are solved by it
and if you stay in that lane of we only
address problems with this that it
actually fixes and we don't start
veering into other stuff that maybe it
fixes or maybe it helps with like if I
were an outside consultant man I would
just get real raw and be like drop that
woohoo [__] like get stick to alignment
right like stick to the things where
it's really easy to show people this is
what happens you get like this is how
Franco explained it to me dude your body
is like it's so [__] connected and
the second you lift funny or one side of
you get stronger than the other and it
pulls like a vertebra a little bit out
then it's like the other side's trying
to compensate or your muscle goes into
spasm and it was like yeah that's
actually exactly what it feels like
feels like it's firing randomly he was
like that's because it is and so what
I'm gonna do is I'm gonna pop pop you
back it's gonna slide back in the
muscles will be imbalanced then neither
of them are gonna be pulled in the other
direction and literally as soon as he
did it it felt better and so it was like
oh he told me exactly what was gonna
happen what I could expect and it
happened and by the way here's this is
another one man you got to know you
should like this this is one where with
the compassion in my heart I actually
wish this weren't
true but the reality is the reason that
there will always be a hierarchy and
things because there's so much
compassion and beauty in this industry
like that that is one thing I resonate
with really well like you guys really
get purpose and all of that at least the
the heart of it I think there's people
doing some iffy stuff that's really
causing you guys a lot of reputational
damage but I know how many of you really
have heart and really want to see people
do awesome stuff but even with that if
you don't know your [__] like I can't
tell you how many times my wife and I
have told stories about Franco
I have not said a word to this man I
walk in the door and he was like oh you
messed up your you know your scapula
doing deadlifts or whatever right and
I'm like how the hell do you know that I
literally just walked in the door he's
like all the way that you're holding
your shoulder blah and then he would pop
and I was like whoa so he could see
stuff my wife the same thing oh you've
come in for like your back but it's
actually your psoas or whatever right
and he would just nail it because he
knew it that well now Franco was a guy
who used to pose as an anatomy chart in
his chiropractic college and he said it
and if you've ever seen Franco in his
prime you would know why he literally
looked like an Anatomy charts crazy and
he said because of that four hours class
after class after class I'm just
standing there being a model and showing
the muscles separation and where
everything is he was like I got to here
the classes over and over and over and
over and over so his level of education
was just insane also he spent decades
lifting heavy weights you have to
understand the muscles you've got to be
able to imagine them think about them as
you fire them so that they'll actually
grow under the stressor so his knowledge
is crazy and when you've got people
going around telling stories like that
all of a sudden if you're a little
skeptical about going to see a
chiropractor you're not anymore so you
have to know your [__] don't do anything
even slightly like oh but this will make
me more money
right that's where it gets dicey but I
get it I meet you with compassion I
promise that you're like I got to keep
the lights on so if I'm gonna help
people I've got to generate enough
revenue to actually help them
so how do I do that that's where I think
you have to expand your vision because
it needs to be in line with what you do
once it's not in line with what you do
then people smell a rat
when you go for the pitch they're like
oh man this isn't real like this is a
true story really think about this for a
second remember I was chasing money I
wanted to be rich rich rich rich
I finally get rich and I realized oh my
god this is leaving me so unhappy I want
to do something that helps people I want
to add value I want to be passionate
so we said when we started quest
nutrition we made protein bars we got
everybody together on the support staff
and we said if anybody ever calls in and
says how do I lose weight the answer is
and I quote boiled chicken breast and
steamed broccoli not because we sell
boiled chicken breast Aseem broccoli we
didn't because it's the real answer and
so I want you above all to focus on
truth so that somebody they may walk out
of your clinic they may never come back
because you either solved their problem
or you weren't gonna be able to solve
their problem you knew that and so you
sent them elsewhere but that person
becomes a referral if you're taking
notes write this down never never go for
the sale always go for the referral
never go for the sale always go for the
referral when that person believes in
you they trust you you had a moment to
monetize them to get the quick dollar
and you didn't that person now wants to
give you money
it's literally incredible and I can't it
like oh I'll give you guys an example so
I create content now I create a lot of
content I put about five to seven hours
depending on the week of content out
every week and I don't monetize it I
don't charge anything for it
and I know people are waiting for the
other shoe to drop and at the end of
this you're waiting for me to hit you up
with something anything to buy for me
there's nothing I want to add value now
my full disclosure is one day I may have
an ask because I create
my new thing is creating movies and so
maybe one day I just want you to tell
people that the movie exists I don't
even need you to go see it but if I've
ever added value to your life just tell
somebody it exists so that I can find my
audience I'm not joking I have had
people show up at the gate to my house
saying I just want to work for you for
free because I dig what you're doing
three or four people have come up to me
in the back already just since I was
here and saying thank you for what you
do that's it thank you for what you do
imagine that but that's the world we
live in that's the opportunity that you
have is to just play the long game and I
don't believe in patience in fact I have
a shirt that says F patience I am NOT a
patient man I am the least patient
person you were ever going to meet I am
actively anti patients because you will
accomplish nothing in your life if your
patient nothing and anybody that tells
you to be patient I want you to be
immediately skeptical but what I always
do is I play the long game I play the
game of reputation that's what you guys
have to do you're in a battle for your
reputation and I would say the thing you
guys need to do is turn inward and not
tolerate it you just can't tolerate it
if you've got people in the industry
like you guys are gonna have to decide
what you really believe is core to being
a chiropractor what your actual value
proposition is and anything outside that
we got a nip in the bud because that's
was damaging your reputation
oh look at your doctor look Trivedi
anytime that's been great I got a
question for you
thank you Matt let's have this cut
where's where happens conversation of
the profession as a whole something that
I've observed over the last 15 years is
that I'm gonna piss off a lot of Kairos
and I say this too is that chiropractors
are let's just say emotional about their
business and they use emotion to in
essence run their business I'd like you
to talk to us about the scope of
building a multi-billion dollar
organization in a company and the use of
emotion inside of it versus logic and
how we can use logic as a profession to
drive us to the next tier because all
the emotion is great but if we don't
have logical systems to take us
collectively to the next level we're
gonna fall apart into motion yeah
so here's now where I'm gonna piss you
off a bit at the end of the day the only
thing that matters is how you feel about
yourself when you buy yourself
everything else is just you're trying to
find a way to fill your day that's
meaningful to you so meaning and purpose
which I would say are just core core in
the emotional center of your existence
that's all that matters
now the question becomes how do we use
logic how do we use systems to scale our
meaning and purpose it's rare that you
meet somebody that doesn't want to touch
more lives that doesn't want to help
more people and one thing I really hope
what I insight here is a riot of
compassion compassion for the people
that are selling like dodgy [__] because
you know why they're doing it they're
not sinister they're not evil they want
to keep the lights on they want to buy
dope Christmas gifts for their kids they
want to take a rad vacation right like I
get it we all get it so meeting people
with anger and rage and all of that just
is not going to play out and it's going
to just further divide your industry you
guys are gonna have to come together and
be understanding of how we ended up here
but then to his point we have to be
deploying things
actually allow us to scale so when we
were scaling quest scaling that fast is
is it's almost comical like you're I was
in a never-ending state of hiring we
went from one employee to 1,400
employees in about four years do the
math just and how many people you have
to hire a day it's crazy so you have to
have systems you get to the point where
you're only as good as what you write
down you guys can't have a gentlemen's
agreement in the industry you need a
declaration you need a manifesto that
people sign like it's the Declaration of
Independence that says this is what
we're about this is what the
chiropractic industry is not what it
should be this is what it is and now
anything that falls outside of that is
outside the bounds of what we see is the
industry and if that's patient centric
if that's all about value creation for
you guys and for the patient right don't
get lost in this it's important for you
guys to create value in your own lives
emotionally spiritually financially but
it's got to be in service of the
customer it's got to be in service of
the people coming to you looking for
help and if it's always in service of
them then you guys will get somewhere
but without those systems you won't you
won't scale ever more question David
Bradley from Cardone hey Tom we've heard
a lot this weekend about success being
duplication all right so success is no
different than any other skill right
duplicate successful actions of others
you can have it can you tell us about
your morning routine like what does it
day in the life of you look like yeah
absolutely
so that's a really powerful point and
habits and routines are I am basically a
bunch of habits and routines duct-taped
together that that is my life I am
profoundly lazy by Nature
and that's true my own mother when I
left for college my mom basically kicked
me out of the nest she forced me to do
it I didn't
want to leave and I was just having a
panic moment confidence was nothing and
she said you gotta gotta go do it gotta
chase your dreams and then so I did and
I left and then she has spent every day
since then trying to get me back and I
said mom this doesn't add up you were
the reason that I left I never would
have left if you hadn't forced me to and
she said with no malice in her heart
I was just assumed you were gonna fail
and I was so grateful in that moment for
that raw truth because that really is
who I was then and what I want people to
understand because it's easy for me
because I used to be about 60 pounds
heavier it's easy for me to show you me
60 pounds heavier and then the ABS like
people get that they don't get the
mental and emotional transformation it's
hard to visualize but the reality is I
was lazy I was undereducated I didn't
have confidence I felt like the dumbest
person in most every room I was in I was
not voted most likely to succeed
I got a 990 on my SATs and I took it
twice I wasn't the person you would
circle and say watch that guy I used to
wear clown hats I'm not kidding like as
a regular fashion statement and that's
where I started and then I realized
humans are the ultimate adaptation
machine I can change in any direction
that I want and the way that I did the
change was habits and routines so this
is how I rock every day I am in bed by
9:00 p.m. like it's a religion I do not
set an alarm so anybody that says that's
impossible I built a billion-dollar
business without setting an alarm you
can do it but you're gonna have to go to
bed early and you're gonna have to go to
bed and leave yourself enough time to
get the sleep that you need now why am I
so obsessive about sleep normally
entrepreneurs it's all about man do
whatever it takes to burn the midnight
oil I'm telling you right now that is a
fool's errand because your brain is how
you experience and function and build
and do all the incredible things you
want to do and if your brain is
functioning sub-optimally
you are never going to get where you
want to go so I prioritize sleep the
next thing is I immediately go to the
gym I hate the gym more than you know
and people that say that they get an
endorphin rush like my wife my wife
seems insane to me she's like singing in
the gym and having a great time I'm like
this is crazy
you seem like a nutjob to me but she's
like oh man it feels so good and I'm
like literally every set hurts I don't
know what you're talking about so I am
trying to get in and out of the gym as
fast as I can but I go to the gym every
time because of cognitive optimization
and longevity for anybody that has ever
watched my content you know I actually
am trying to live forever right now I
know I'm gonna die but I'm really hoping
that I can buy myself time for medical
science to catch up so I live in a way
that is optimized for longevity so I
workout the next thing I do is I
meditate meditation is one of those
things oh my god so for years like we
all have our thing that we need to get
better at and mine was I was really weak
and emotionally soft like if I was on
the soccer field and I got hit with a
soccer ball as a kid I would cry and ask
to be taken off the field that's just
where I started I mean sad but that's
the truth of it so I had to learn to
toughen up so to get into business that
was like number one for me I had to get
tougher so I didn't want to meditate
because it sounded so soft I was just
like oh that sounds gross I don't want
to do that and then I met a Navy SEAL
named Mark Devine and Mark Devine looked
me in my eye and he said you're an idiot
start meditating and I thought okay well
this guy's pretty tough so if said tough
man says that I need to be meditating
I'll at least try it
so I meditate I do a very simple box
breathing method I don't do equal sides
on all parts which is what a traditional
box breathing method does but it's in
through the nose inhale hold out through
the nose exhale hold repeat the cycle
and so I do that for about 20 minutes
the reason that I do that is because it
puts your brain in an alpha wave state
which is known as calm and creative so
you're not getting sleepy because you're
if you're following my protocol you're
very well
arrested you're getting the sleep that
you need it's amazing you're always full
of energy and I'd do that for like I
said about 20 minutes and then I go into
what I call Finca tating think it's a
ting came because I was really annoyed
that during meditation I wasn't supposed
to think about anything else opposed to
keep coming back to the breath but the
problem was I was getting in this calm
creative state I was having amazing
ideas and I wasn't supposed to stop to
write them down that really bothered me
so I said alright I'm gonna carve out
time right after I meditate to start
using that vibe that alpha wave state
that I'm in to take these notes and have
these ideas and so by allowing myself
that to know that my meditation cycle is
two parts one where I really am just
coming back to the breath back to the
breath every time my mind wanders I'm
just back to the breath because after
that I'm gonna get my computer I'm gonna
put it on my lap I'm gonna keep doing
the breathing I'll even close my eyes
between ideas but when I have an idea
better that I write them down after I
think it's eight then I get time to read
reading for me abl boys and girls always
be learning always be learning I read
obsessively I read in every transitional
moment if I'm walking from the gym to
the kitchen I've got my headphones on
I'm reading if I'm in an uber I'm
reading if I'm on a plane I'm reading
I'm always trying to learn something at
all times whenever I can to keep my mind
fresh because of the only math equation
that matters I I equals I owe ideas in
equal ideas out if you want fresh ideas
for your industry start researching in
fact can I be just a touchy bit judgey
for a second when I was researching to
give this talk I thought I'm gonna bet
in the last 48 hours I've done more
research on this industry than 90% of
the people I'm gonna meet and that's the
problem it's all there for you like when
you start going video after video after
video and you don't my [__] what
is up dude it's good to see you are you
speaking oh you guys are in for a treat
now so when I was doing that research I
thought alright this is incredibly
powerful going result after result after
result and because I don't I'm not
trying to like do confirmation bias
I only see what I want to see I wanted
to see the truth of the industry I
thought wow it's all laid out right
there so I spent a lot of time reading
and then notice I haven't said I eat yet
then I go get ready for work then after
all of that by this point I've usually
been up for about four or five hours
then I eat so I do an intermittent
fasting protocol I dip in and out of
ketosis so I usually do one week of
ketosis where I'm actually I have
ketones present in my bloodstream which
we don't need to go into what that is if
you know what it is you know if not you
can look it up and then I do a higher
protein cycle after that but I always
postpone my first meal as long as I can
I'm usually up around 4 a.m. so by the
time I eat it's usually 8 or 9 I don't
take meetings ever before 10 a.m. which
means from 4 to 10 I have 6 hours where
I do what I think is right for the
business I keep a list by the way of
important things should always have a
list of important things so you never
have to think hey what should I be doing
you go immediately to your important
things list it should be a list of
execution not of thought so it is things
to do to move your business forward and
you should live obsessively in that list
then by the time 10 o'clock rolls around
all my employees are there and then I
start taking meetings you'll also notice
I did not say I check email I respond to
about 5 emails a week email will be the
death of Western civilization I promise
get out of your email in fact I want to
give you guys the gift of shame and what
I'm going to say is every time you check
your email I want you to feel an
overwhelming sense of shame because in
those moments what you're saying is
someone else knows better how I should
spend my time than me that's what
checking your email is it's totally
reactive now I get it you're not going
to get it down to zero but man it should
be close you need to spend the time
being the governor of your own life of
planning out what you should be doing of
understanding things well enough to map
your life out and then execute against
that map I think we have time for one
more
so if you didn't hear are there any
principles I have that haven't changed
yes from the time that I wrote them down
I'll say that they're still there so I
actually took the time to write down
because I realized as we were growing
and we had you know over a thousand
employees I was like you're only as good
as what you write down so I wrote down
my 25 point bullet belief system which
if anybody wants it and go to impact
Theory comm it's the impact Theory
belief system it's entirely free and
that is as of right now how I think but
I'm desperate for Tucker Max to tell me
how I'm wrong so that I can change those
because when you have people in your
life that push you or you read a book
and it opens your eyes like a book in a
box then you can really be transformed
truly so I'm always hungry to see my
thinking evolve to see it be pushed so I
don't hold on to anything as Dogma in
fact I am terrified of Dogma and one of
the first video posts I ever did will
say look I'm gonna come at you strong
I'm gonna tell you what I believe but
the second I believe something new I
will change so if you've latched on to
something I said six months ago and I
contradict myself six months later brace
yourselves because I'm trying to change
and to quote jay-z you think I work this
hard to stay the same alright thank you
guys so much
[Applause]